
experience:- 
Designed and implemented stored procedures views and other application database code objects.
Maintained SQL scripts indexes and complex queries for analysis and extraction.
Performed quality testing and assurance for SQL servers.
Worked with stakeholders developers and production teams across units to identify business needs and solution options.
Ensured best practice application to maintain security and integrity of data.

experience:- 
Lead role for efforts that involve multi-terabyte data management / migrations
Create and support HA for tier 1 production servers using Always-On Availability groups and replication
Excellent backend skills in creating SQL objects like tables,stored procedures,views,indexes, constraints and user defined data types
Responsible for monitoring customer Facing databases and ensuring 24x7x365 uptime within our internal SLA of 99.99 with on call responsibility
Troubleshoot any performance anomalies and respond to high priority issues
Developed Oracle Database Backups &amp; Recovery Strategies and created High Availability processes using Windows Clustering and Database Replication Technologies.
Recommending and implementing data security by creating users and assigning permissions based on the minimum level of database access the user would need and with tools like Always
Encrypted, Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) and Dynamic Data Masking (DDM) to secure clients sensitive data.
Performed administrative activities like Database Maintenance, Indexing Large Databases, Database Tuning, Query Optimization and Database Backup &amp; Recovery.
Developed and automated daily, weekly and monthly system maintenance tasks such as database backup, database integrity verification and indexing.
Develop and managed SLAs, including RTO &amp; RPO, for all server instances (50+)
Perform Patching and Database upgrades and migration on multiple versions of SQL server to ensure instances are up to date with the latest security fixes from Microsoft
Implementation of SQL logins, roles and authentication modes as a part of security policies for various categories of users by creating users and assigning permissions based on minimum level of database access
Provide 24x7 support for critical production database systems.
Managed identification, protection and use of data assets.
Planned and installed upgrades of database management system software to enhance database performance.
Gathered, defined and refined requirements, led project design and oversaw implementation.
Developed database architectural strategies at modeling, design and implementation stages to address business or industry requirements.
Collaborated with system architects, design analysts and others to understand business and industry requirements.
Communicate with corporate customers via telephone, written correspondence, or electronic service regarding problems identified in Microsoft SQL Server software.
Provided Microsoft SQL Server performance monitoring to establish baselines and adjust resources and/or database settings to achieve higher performance.
Installed, configured Microsoft SQL Server instances for high availability and disaster recovery on remote locations.
Provide day-to-day maintenance and administration of Microsoft SQL Server databases supporting client-facing and back-office production applications.
Performed daily DBA management tasks including troubleshooting, performance and tuning, database monitoring and backup/recovery.
Supervised daily DBA operations; implemented infrastructure and processes to support over 500 databases across enterprise.


Produced high-standard database solutions to meet stability, reliability, and performance metrics.
Created optimal technical solutions to user needs through research and in-depth system analysis.
Administered, supported, and monitored databases by proactively resolving database issues and maintaining servers.
Wrote and maintained technical and functional specifications to document database intentions and requirements.
Configured High Availability and disaster recovery solutions such as Always on, Traditional Failover Clustering, Replication, and Log shipping.
Setting up TDE and always encrypted
Setup, test and maintain business continuity/ disaster recovery infrastructure database and applications.
Migrating and upgrading SQL server 2012 to SQL server 2019
Planned and implemented security measures to safeguard vital business data.
Implemented BI solution framework for end-to-end business intelligence projects.
Upgrading SQL server by reviewing, planning, testing, and installing database securing patches and service packs.
SQL Server Profiler, Extended Events, Query Store, and Database Engine Tuning Advisor (DTA) for performance.
Implemented system enhancements to propose, design, and develop solutions to fulfill requests and address problem reports.
Administered, supported, and monitored databases by proactively resolving database issues and maintaining servers.
Supported multiple concurrent projects enabling delivery efficiencies and technical resolution.
Maintained complex T-SQL queries, views, and stored procedures in a multi-database environment with little supervision.
Managed workload independently but collaborated with colleagues to complete larger-scale tasks in a distributed team environment.
Integrated Enterprise Business Objects infrastructure with SSRS (SQL Server Reporting service) for front-end reporting.